hi this is fantasy artist ed beard jr.
and this is my part to multiple
character scene drawing demonstration
this is continued from part one we're
gonna be working on the robe work a
little more using the tortilla paper
stump smudging tool as you can see I'm
working with the graphite that I've
already put down earlier and I'm
smudging it in and blending it in fact
actually shadowing a lot of the
mid-tones with it it's a great tool
you've got to make sure that your two
teens points or the tips are either
blunt all the way through very fine
pointed right about now I'm using a more
fine pointed one this way I can get
right about now as you see I put that
line and they're real nice and fine
because I had a good good point on the
end of this paper stump it's why it's
important to have a variety of different
heads on the point on the paper stone
and making different points to them and
this can be done easily just by using
them you know getting a blank piece of
paper putting some little graphite down
and then just smudging it until you
blend it in alright we're gonna start
with metal and chrome and armor on the
night we're gonna be drawing it in to
start and then later of course smudging
it in now I'm gonna be starting with the
helmet and when you're doing chrome or
metal work especially in this case where
I want a highly reflective look it's
gonna be important to keep in mind where
the light sauce is coming from which is
in this case the right hand side shining
in to the left but also the fact that
with metal you get a lot of pickups from
reflected light as well as reflections
from other areas in the environment in
this case would be his shoulder perhaps
even part of the cape maybe even the the
pole that's holding the flag but since
there's some some areas that are so
small so tiny it's just important that
we put indication lines now that can be
blended shadows where you have darks
going from dark mid grade to high light
and then some just very very fine line
work which gives the impression of a
reflection I always recommend to my
students that they take a look at some
chrome bumpers from old cars or some
images
the find in magazines books are on the
web which demonstrate the metal effects
of chrome in the way reflections occur
as they bend around rounded surfaces and
that's one of the ways that I studied
and got some basic ideas of the way in
which reflections occur now in the
crevices that are in the armor all the
different rounded crevices anytime I
come across a rounded area I always make
sure that I leave just a hairline of
open space like even if it's you'll see
what I'm doing the arm right now
I'll leave just a hairline over the
bicep I'm gonna give you a close-up of
this later on so you're gonna be able to
see what I'm saying I'm not shadowing it
right to the end of the line or the
outside perimeter I'm actually leaving a
little bit of white so I'm leaving a
little white then I'm shadowing from
dark to light and then I'm putting a
fine line of reflection after the fact
and by doing this it gives the
impression that this is not a an
absorbing fabric or material
it's a reflective surface
and we just jumped ahead just a little
bit you've gotten a basic idea now I'm
going in with the paper stump or 2tn and
I'm actually blending this is a very
very fine tip paper stump so I can get
into the real fine details
there you go I'm just blending in
shadowing where some of the more larger
shadows would be it's taking some of the
armor just blending it a little bit now
being careful not to fill this whole
area in it's most important that I leave
some white spaces finishing up the
trumpet
blending shadowing a little bit more
deeper on the left side of his body as
we have said before the light source is
coming from the right hand side
working on the saddle there you go now
you can see where I've left the
highlights specially on the backside of
that right arm now the next thing we're
gonna do a just sorry I sharpened my the
tip of my pencil with my sandpaper block
I'm going into the details on the head
of the martial Eagle just trying to
define the feather lines at first so the
first stage was as we do feathers is to
try to redefine the shadow lines
redefine some of the individual outside
contour lines of each feather then later
on I'll go in and I'll actually start to
do some shadowing I'll do some texturing
where I'll actually take line by line
and create the individual hairs of the
feather but for right now on the head
I'm focusing a little bit more on just
the pattern of the feathers much like
you would lay roofing material or
shingles is how the feathers lay
themselves out
and it really doesn't matter whether you
working from the top down or the bottom
up especially not with pencil work you
know you just some people like to work
from bottom up when they do feathers
because for them it's easier to
alternatingly
lay them out you can work up down top
bottom doesn't matter whichever way is
comfortable for you doing some of the
gear the reins
seven old
now I'm going in and they're gonna start
to add just a little bit of dark lines
and indications of where the shadows are
more so on the left side in the back
side of the head of the Eagle threw in
some of the shadowing on the leather
strap there and again we're gonna do
this we're working right now with an HB
pencil rather than a 2b + HB which is a
little bit harder lead a little less for
concerns about smudging and whatnot well
thank you very much for looking at part
2 and now on to part 3 of the multi
character scene drawing demonstration
where we will continue to work with the
feathers in much more detail working
down into the talons onto the crystals
and other aspects of this drawing so
check it out once again part 3 I look
forward to seeing you there